# Dynamic remodeling of the E. coli protein interactome in response to environmental perturbations

Proteins play an essential role in the vital biological processes governing cellular functions. The majority of proteins function as members of macromolecular machines, with the network of interacting proteins revealing the molecular mechanisms driving the formation of these complexes. Profiling the dynamic remodeling of these interactions within different contexts constitutes a crucial component to achieving a comprehensive systems-level understanding of protein complex assembly. We used co-fractionation mass spectrometry to quantify more than 2,000 proteins in the bacterium E.coli cultured under ten different growth conditions. The conditional elution patterns reveal interaction remodeling among known complexes involved in diverse pathways in response to changes in the organism’s environment. Comparing the results to analogous proteomics data reveal assembly changes not detectable by traditional abundance fold-change strategies alone, demonstrating the utility of studying the proteome within the context of the constituent interactions. Our results provide evidence for the plasticity of the E.coli interactome along with a rigorous generalizable framework to quantify protein interaction specificity. To facilitate exploration of the results, an accompanying interactive web application is made publicly-available to the community alongside a computational tool for future studies of interactome dynamics.

![Net Bio Meeting 2021 Poster.png]
